# A Sheltered Hermit's Reflections on a First Cross-Country Roadtrip
"I swear I will NEVER drive long distances as long as I live." I kid you not, this is what I told myself, repeatedly, whenever I would drive home from university after my **two** hour drive. No sprawling traffic. No impending appointments to rush home to. My parents were even paying for the gas. Just a simple, 100 mile drive was enough to make me absolutely miserable. So how on Earth did I find myself on the precipice of what would end up being a 7,800+ mile, 22 day roadtrip?

## A Season of Responsiveness
<!-- This section is still in progress, and is just a summary of where I want to take it
I'm socially dense as a rock; I want to change that. I promised myself to start listening to others and try to perceive them as they want to communicate to me. As such, I framed the next stage of my self-improvement journey around responsiveness, or more specifically, being more responsive to the people and situations around me.
However, to be responsive, I realized I need events to respond to. I found, to be responsive, I also needed to be a more active participant in the lives of my friends as well. 
Which leads me to my largest catalyst: Two friends very important to me had just moved across the country. Even more conveniently, my youngest sibling is beginning undergraduate just 40 miles away from my friends. 
-->
In a therapy session before the start of the trip, I predicted two potential takeaways I might have at the end:
1. As I joined [the majority of my age group to move in with my parents](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/09/04/a-majority-of-young-adults-in-the-u-s-live-with-their-parents-for-the-first-time-since-the-great-depression/), a year has passed since I've been truly on my own. It has been so long since I've had quality quiet, peaceful time to myself to recharge my introvert battery. Maybe I would come to realize just how dangerously I had been pushing myself over the last year to be more active friend that I was losing touch with my own needs?
2. Maybe after all these months of hard work, I'd realize I've fundamentally changed who I am and find myself missing my friends. Rather than being relieved on the road, I'd constantly be excited to return from the trip to tell them about all the wonderful adventures I've been on! Was I capable of such a feat?

## The Prepper's Hubris 
What was this risk-fearing hermit's best tool to take on the unknown? **Delusion.**

Before stepping foot out of my garage, I already had every mile planned out. For each leg, I had every stop, refueling station, and camping spot I'd be visiting. I had ordered brand new tires and had an appointment for installation and alignment multiple days in advance of the trip. My immediate family could look up my car's location at any point they wanted, and I made sure to verify I would be within cell service the entire way. I carried two phones on independent plans to make sure I could be reached at all times. I recruited nine "Guardian Angels" across the country with whom I'd be sharing daily updates of my whereabouts and intentions. I read every article, every roadtrip blog, every cautionary tale I could get my hands on. I exuded confidence that I could precisely simulate the entire trip from beginning to end.

I hadn't even packed my bags when everything started to fall apart.

It started with my tire company refusing to jack my car due to certification issues, despite me *providing* the make and model in advance. The only garage who could install my tires last minute only had an appointment on the day I was planning to start the trip, and ended up asking to hold my car overnight! This ended up delaying my trip by only **half** a day, which arguably was worse than a whole day, since this meant my camping sites were all invalidated, unless I wanted to sleep mid-day! Once I got on the road, things weren't any smoother, as I immediately forgot my wallet rushing out the door. Later in the first leg, I got stuck in a multi-hour interstate closure, with only the dark, billowing clouds of smoke from the catastrophe ahead to keep me company. I had to be content with only speculating what happened, as the only remnant of the event was a set of huge, smoldering, and half-melted trailer tires, whose remnants were being hauled onto a flatbed.

Very quickly, I learned, or rather re-learned, my first lesson of roadtripping, which was ironically one I would say all the time to my ex-partner: *Plans are made to be broken.*

Despite all the derailing havoc, I was still glad I made my plans, as the lessons I learned by making them allowed me to dynamically reconfigure my trip at the last minute to accommodate the actual legs I ended up traveling. I knew exactly what I was looking for, and did not run into any issues reconfiguring my stops. Learning to "roll with the punches with a smile" was an invaluable attitude to start my trip with. They prepared me to take on all the rest of my future surprises, which turned these first chaotic potholes into mild inconveniences!

Even more important, the fact I had the gall to claim I had everything planned out was what pushed me to take the first steps to begin with. Had I actually been made aware in advance of all the curveballs I'd be juggling this trip, I would be nope-ing it straight back to my bed. Though I had been immediately humbled by the fates, who laughed at my prepper's hubris, it was this delusion that emboldened me to take the first steps into the unknown; it was arguably the most essential item in my trip bag, despite it not even being on the checklist.

## Powered by Adventure and… Introversion!
Despite all the setbacks that framed the start of the roadtrip, I was having the time of my life! Immediately after setting off on the trip, the first realization I had was the striking amount of energy, and how little highway fatigue, I felt compared to my university driving days. There are serious benefits I think I enjoyed due directly to my electric vehicle, but those reflections will come in another article.

In some ways, I'm still trying to identify this previously unknown Chakra I somehow unlocked, but in my reflections, a little voice popped up that whispered, "Hey, remember how for literally your entire life, you identified as an introvert!?" On one hand, leaving my safe-haven and embracing the call of adventure was terrifying. On the other, taking back control of my life and truly allowing myself to listen to myself and my needs was… rejuvenating. Throughout the drive, the simple opportunity to be in tune with myself, to indulge in the freedom afforded to me by the wild, and, quite frankly, to let myself have fun in ways I could only do on my own was refreshing and stimulating; I'm confident this was at least part of the mysterious dark energy that fueled my trip.

Speaking of taking back control of my life…

## Rediscovering Myself in Flagstaff
I feel my near religious experience I had in this amazing city deserves its own separate feature, but I would be remiss if I did not mention it here. Those who know me know I'm an astronomy nerd to my core. One artistic manifestation of this life purpose that quickly became an obsession was astrophotography. So much so that I ended up spawning a culture of astrophotography in my undergraduate astronomy club that lives on to this day. I even had the privilege to teach four credits of my own astrophotography curriculum to 40 students at my university.

So what happens when I get my first job at a small observatory in a remote town in the mountains of the Appalachian with the darkest skies on the east coast? *Immediately pack away my camera equipment, and never touch it again.* One small detail I forgot to mention was that I also started a relationship with who I thought was my best friend. I was deranged to think that somehow, throwing away my passions was somehow me "growing up." Between running our house entirely on my own while simultaneously serving as her personal secretary, taking her phone calls, making her near constant doctor's appointments, and filling out her forms, I barely found time to breathe, let alone stay up until 2AM to stargaze.

I hesitated paying $64 to attend a stargazing tour that, at my university, I volunteered to run for free, but after traveling 2000 miles to Flagstaff, I could not miss out on the opportunity to see the telescope that discovered Pluto! I'm sure glad I did, because that night might very well end up being the most impactful moment of my twenties. Did I learn anything new? Did the tour tell me a new story of the stars I had never heard before? No. Actually, I had heard all the stories before; some I even retold myself to similar tour groups. The crown-jewel of Lowell Observatory was actually a near identical copy of the telescope I was trained on, and ended up teaching on, at my university, from the lens to the control equipment.

But that was precisely the lifesaving moment I needed.

As I stood in the grass under the laser of my tour guide, hearing the same stories I once told my students, the waves of nostalgia were nearly too much to handle. When I dusted off my camera and took my first shots of the Milky Way in years over the observatory, I was brought back to those days in school where I was embodying my life's purpose. Chatting with a fellow astrophotographer who brought their camera next to mine and geeking out with me about camera equipment reminded me of the countless giddy conversations I've had with friends long since forgotten across all of our trips, from the top of a very strenuous hike, a private observatory booked for our club, even in my bedroom studying with my fellow majors. That night, I felt connected to not only the same night sky I fell in love with as a kid, but also to the observatory and its people, the tour guides and the tour group, both of whom I saw myself in from different stages in my life. In that moment, I remembered who I was and was reminded of my core essence I had neglected for so long. I think I best summarized my feelings that night in a message to my guardian angels: "If you can't tell, I'm really excited :) Like I'm feeling joy I haven't felt in years."

Another theme/lesson that developed throughout my trip, but was accentuated that night in Flagstaff was:

## Life goes on, no matter how insignificant
On the way back, I was supposed to be joined by another friend, but due to a miscommunication on dates, I would end up taking this trek solo. As such, I had already requested the week off for vacation, so unlike the forward trip, most of my driving was during the work week. Which, other than having to navigate rush hour across seven different metropolitan areas, sounds pretty mundane. Yet, it was this small change that gave way to a seemingly small observation that taught me something profound.

I made a small detour towards Aspen, Colorado to charge my car. I found this beautiful park across from the charger with a strong river coursing through it that fed the Colorado River. And since Aspen is a ski town, the mountains surrounding the city only added to the otherworldly scene. On my way out, I sat at a light next to a high school. It was just about lunch time when I saw a group of teenagers leaving their school, presumably to grab something to eat. As I watched them in their friend pods, clutching their backpacks and textbooks, I felt yet another connection to them as I remembered my time in high school. What an odd place to feel connection, I thought. Here I was, in what seemed like a faraway, enchanted forest that looked so foreign from my home, yet seeing kids that looked like me, living lives that looked like mine. The dichotomy of the two experiences showed me that despite the huge distances that separated us, these strangers and I still shared so much. I can only imagine the lives of these people, whom I only hear about on the news once a political season, sharing the same dreams, desires, and struggles that I also have. Though I had logically understood the phenomenon of [Sonder](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/sonder#Noun), this was the first time I truly felt it. And now that I knew what it felt like, I relished the sensation all afterwards. I felt it again talking to a police officer in Ogallala, Nebraska. I felt it talking to a business office worker of a Nissan Dealer, who's son is a project lead at Tesla's Autonomous Driving division. Again, and again, I saw just as how I found my own life pulling me forward through my struggles, so too must each person I met, and countless more I may never meet, also be pulled forward through life just as myself.

The sheer grand scale of it all was something I also felt on the forward trip going through Oklahoma. As I drove through my tenth hour of flat farmland, and I felt the sheer scale of the continent for the first time, I felt so truly tiny and inconsequential to the forces of the universe, something so at odds with my 9–5 mission to study, understand, and master this same universe. Though I obviously believe in science (maybe to fault?), I felt empathy for climate-change deniers of all people. I understood how it can make no sense how we insignificant ants could somehow be changing the planet, that my individual choices could somehow be impacting something as large scale as the WHOLE environment. Let me be clear: Climate change IS real and we all have to play our part to trying to stop it. Yet for a moment, I felt a very human connection to people whom I never understood. 

## Why I'll be back on the road VERY soon
These revelations are great and all, but largely, one could argue they are one-time experiences that were encapsulated in my very **first** roadtrip. I imagine after the fifth, tenth, twentieth time on the road, I won't be having the same, life-changing epiphanies every single time. So while this experience meant the world to me, why would I do it again?

There's one last experience I haven't shared yet, one that shaped my takeaway from this trip from, "This has been great!" to, "I have to do this again!" I really only visited four cities in any amount of detail: Flagstaff, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Detroit. While Flagstaff was for me, the one thing the next three cities shared in common was simple: Friendship.

When I was in my low of lows in the ending days of my relationship, and after my separation, I felt absolutely, truly alone. I had tunnel visioned so much that without her, I felt aimless. But even after years of neglect, when I needed them most yet didn't deserve them, I found myself surrounded and supported by the very people I abandoned so many years ago. They picked me up without question and beauty in their dedication to me filled me with my missing sense of purpose.

The beauty of roadtripping is it closed distances I thought once impassable. Each city I visited after Flagstaff was a dedicated visit to someone dear to me that I thought I had lost so many years ago. Discussing gender theory over tea in LA, geeking out over philosophy in Detroit, my friends were the ones that gave true vibrancy to this trip, and its because of them that I will be returning to the open road, to continue the journey with them that I had neglected for far too long. It's to value them in ways I hadn't in the past and to honor them as the ones who saved me from my darkest times. I suppose this speaks to the second takeaway my therapist and I predicted from the start. As is often the case, the answer was never going to be one extreme or the other, but rather confidently in the middle.

Also I'm confident with the lessons I've learned this first time, I NOW know enough that each subsequent trip will be easier! Though that may be that pesky prepper's hubris talking again ;)